In today's world, there's a constant flood of information coming at you from just about everywhere.
It's good to stay informed.
The problem is that not everything you hear or see is true.
Some of it is misinformation.
Opinions, half-truths, conspiracy theories, and even outright lies dressed up as facts.
Misinformation isn't just inaccurate.
It can also be dangerous.
It can cause people to make bad decisions or to ignore important safety warnings.
So how can you protect yourself from misinformation?
At Job 12-11, the Bible says that we should test out words as the tongue tastes food.
When you taste something new, you can spit it out if it's bad.
Before you swallow it.
In the same way, before you believe a story or repeat it to others, you should put it to the test.
Here are two ways you can do that.
Test number one.
Consider the source of the information.
Do you know where the information originally came from?
Don't be fooled by appearances.
An online post may look official, but behind the scenes, the author may just be repeating rumors,
or spreading his own opinions.
And with something called deep fake technology,
this on his people can even do things like swap the faces and voices in a video
to create a completely fake report.
So even if a story is widely repeated, follow the Bible's advice of 1 Thessalonians 5-21.
And make sure of all things.
Compare what you hear with other sources to verify the information.
Test number two.
Consider the purpose of a story.
Is it really to present the facts or to promote just one side of an issue?
Some reports spin the news, emphasizing certain details and downplaying others to sway your opinion.
Some reports may even be conspiracy theories.
Claims that certain groups have secretly plotted to cause a tragic event or crisis.
The purpose is often to promote prejudice and hatred.
Such theories have a way of spreading like wildfire.
But they are just that.
Theories.
And sometimes they're based on deliberate lies.
So don't be fooled.
But before you spend time and effort testing everything you hear,
there's an important question you need to ask yourself.
Is the story really that important to you?
Blashy headlines can make even trivial news items seem important.
But if you follow every bit of information that pops up,
you just may hit information overload.
We'll get stressed out about reports that are more speculation than actual news.
If you feel overwhelmed, it may help to turn off some notifications
and just search for the information you need when you need it.
Of course, even if you're not online, misinformation can spread by word of mouth.
Even while meaning friends may just repeat what they've heard.
So whether you read something, hear it from another person,
or it's forwarded to you by a friend.
Remember the words of Proverbs 14-15.
The naive person believes every word.
But the shrewd one ponders each step.
In other words, don't just believe everything you hear without thinking it through.
But that doesn't mean we can't trust anything or anyone.
If you hear something that makes you anxious or suspicious,
go to someone you trust, someone with more experience,
who can help you evaluate the truth behind it.
By taking the time to evaluate information sources,
considering the purpose behind the reports you hear,
and not getting bogged down with news you don't really need,
you'll be well informed, instead of misinformed.
And that will help you make good decisions and stay safe.